Hey, Hi, Hello! I hope everyone had fun on this research assignment!
I’m sure I did! I believe what we’re doing here is shedding light
onto a time in history that isn’t discussed in our everyday
and I think that’s great… Before we begin this tale
of how a man stuck a snake in his sleeve, we must first talk about
the rich context that encapsulates this oh so captivating tale.
This story is part of a series of 52 stories that have two predominant figures
throughout: The Parrot and Khojisteh. Khojisteh seeks her husband who is away and the Parrot’s
one job is to tell her almost riddle-like stories that are jam packed with moralistic
innuendos that prevent Khojisteh from being a “ho”. Basically, Khojisteh is just a bag of
horn-dogs while the Parrot so entertainingly directs her attention from one bird specie to
another. Fun fact: there’s actually an illustrated version containing 250 paintings that was commissioned by
his son, Akbar?! Talk about daddy issues… Now that you vaguely know the context of
the stories in its rawest form, it’s story time. This story is set on the
service of a snake. The Parrot tells a tale of the “Nobleman and the Snake.”
The snake tells the Nobleman that there is a man after it and that it
needs protection. The kind Nobleman allows the snake to enter his sleeve for protection. Although
we don’t directly see it on the image, but we can infer that there is
a confrontation here. Right off the bat, we can tell it’s from Akbar’s time besides
the obvious, in a more artistic sense it adheres to the 16th century styles of
realism and naturalism as we can see with the Nobleman-like figure and an exact
replica of a snake. Their colorful surroundings can be amicable to realism and naturalism
style as well.A more in depth look into the image here we can infer
that the snake is asking something of the Nobleman. The two figures are in total eye
contact. The Nobleman’s stance suggests that he’s listening to the snake. His hands are positioned
right below the waist and are holding one another. Although different, this reminds me of
the Mona Lisa. This position is actually reminiscent of Asian Just by the way his
hands are and the expression on his face. Tony! How can you tell that this
figure is the Nobleman? You may ask and that’s simple! He’s the only humanoid figure
within the image. But on a more serious note, his garments suggests silk and we
all know how boujee silk is right? I mean, to call that fit a “hunting
outfit” is literally spitting on the face of Mughal fashion. The garments seen on the
Nobleman besides what we know from the story suggests that he is of high ranking
power. The use of color orange may also suggest courage or sacrifice. In Hinduism, it
is believed that the color orange represents  the “Sacral Chakra!” So in a way the
artist may be paying homage to a divine figure, perhaps Krishna? The background is ripped
the snake and the Nobleman’s surroundings suggest that they are out in the wilderness. The
lack of man made architecture support this claim.This is the next image for the
story. According to the text, this falls under the Forty-Fifth night: The amir slays
the snake after giving it shelter. The ending is pretty explanatory here. The Nobleman is
confronted by the snake’s pursuant and tells him that the snake has fled. After the
coast is cleared the Nobleman tells the snake that his pursuant has left but the
snake then threatens the Nobleman saying that the Nobleman is a “fool for giving compassion
to an enemy for his kind! The Nobleman ponders on what to do for a
moment then tells the snake that another one of its species has come and the Snake peeks out of the
man’s sleeve. The Nobleman man tricks the snake and strikes it with a stone and
kills it. I guess, the moral of the story is to never trust talking animals.
Or for Khojisteh, do not mistake who your enemies are and I guess also the
idea of lust. Also it’s worth mentioning the artistic style of this piece, compared to
the last image, the Nobleman’s eyes grew bigger and he has a full on beard
now. It seems that he’s acquired a Horse too.A closer look at the image
shows that unlike the first image, there is a chronological order of how the story
unfolds, from top to bottom.From the top-side of the image we can see
the confrontation between the Nobleman and the Snake’s pursuant. Their body language suggests that they
are communicating with each other. Their hand gestures suggest that both figures are respecting
one another. This stems from their use of an open-palm gesture rather than just
pointing with their index fingers. We can even go as far as to observe the
two figure’s relation to power. Since the Nobleman’s position within the image is higher than
that of the Snake’s pursuant, we can infer that the pursuant is of lower social
class than the Nobleman. Fun fact: The Triangle thing you see strapped on their waist
is a dagger from the “Ain-i Akbari” weaponry. These weapons were prominent not only in
Akbar’s times but also during Babur’s as well! From the top section of the image,
we can infer that this is the place in time where the two humans of
the story meet. Let me direct your attention to the bottom section of the image.
We see that the Nobleman has killed the snake. However, we see no indicator that
the Nobleman used a stone like the text suggests. We do see blood coming out
of the snake’s mouth which suggests that he’s killed the snake. At first glance, I
thought the Nobleman’s expression was kind of comical. The finger on his mouth triggers a
kind of youthful “oops” feeling. Maybe like a small child curious as to what his
actions will entail, kills the snake and goes “woops, I guess that’s what that does.”
The surroundings suggests again they’re still outdoors from the rock that the Nobleman’s perched upon
and the lack of man-made architecture suggests this. If I may direct your attention
back to the Snake’s pursuant and the Nobleman. Their facial hair is different too. The
snake’s pursuant has a longer beard than the Nobleman. Maybe this suggests he’s from a
different region due to genetic differences or maybe this has something to do with one’s
social structure. The horse on the other hand is just as convoluting for me as
is you. I have to mention that this might be an ode from the artist
himself. To differentiate between the Nobleman and the snake’s pursuant, the horse in this situation
may be linked to the Nobleman with its lavish accessories to compliment the Nobleman’s high
rank power.Alright, now that we’ve discussed both images, do you see the correlational link
between the two and in relation to the text? The story may be vaguely translated
and even lost within the images but once you’re familiar with the text it becomes
quite apparent to the mind. Thank you!